.TH "OSM2PGSQL" "1" "1.8.1" "" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
osm2pgsql-gen - Generalize OpenStreetMap data - EXPERIMENTAL!
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]osm2pgsql-gen\f[R] [\f[I]OPTIONS\f[R]]\&...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
THIS PROGRAM IS EXPERIMENTAL AND MIGHT CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE!
.PP
\f[B]osm2pgsql-gen\f[R] reads data imported by \f[B]osm2pgsql\f[R] from
the database, performs various generalization steps specified by a Lua
config file and writes the data back to the database.
It is used in conjunction with and after \f[B]osm2pgsql\f[R] and reads
the same config file.
.PP
This man page can only cover some of the basics and describe the command
line options.
See the Generalization chapter in the osm2pgsql
Manual (https://osm2pgsql.org/doc/manual.html#generalization) for more
information.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (\f[C]--\f[R]).
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.
.SH MAIN OPTIONS
.TP
-a, --append
Run in append mode.
.TP
-c, --create
Run in create mode.
This is the default if \f[B]-a, --append\f[R] is not specified.
.TP
-S, --style=FILE
The Lua config file.
Same as for \f[B]osm2pgsql\f[R].
.TP
-j, -jobs=NUM
Specifies the number of parallel threads used for certain operations.
Setting this to the number of available CPU cores is a reasonable
starting point.
.SH HELP/VERSION OPTIONS
.TP
-h, --help
Print help.
.TP
-V, --version
Print osm2pgsql version.
.SH LOGGING OPTIONS
.TP
--log-level=LEVEL
Set log level (`debug', `info' (default), `warn', or `error').
.TP
--log-sql
Enable logging of SQL commands for debugging.
.SH DATABASE OPTIONS
.TP
-d, --database=NAME
The name of the PostgreSQL database to connect to.
If this parameter contains an \f[C]=\f[R] sign or starts with a valid
URI prefix (\f[C]postgresql://\f[R] or \f[C]postgres://\f[R]), it is
treated as a conninfo string.
See the PostgreSQL manual for details.
.TP
-U, --username=NAME
Postgresql user name.
.TP
-W, --password
Force password prompt.
.TP
-H, --host=HOSTNAME
Database server hostname or unix domain socket location.
.TP
-P, --port=PORT
Database server port.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \[bu] 2
osm2pgsql website (https://osm2pgsql.org)
.IP \[bu] 2
osm2pgsql manual (https://osm2pgsql.org/doc/manual.html)
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]postgres\f[R](1)
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]osm2pgsql\f[R](1)
